---
layout: page
title: Joseph Bullock
---

Long Bio:

Joseph holds the Artificial Intelligence Research Fellowship at United Nations Global Pulse, an innovation initiative of the UN to harness emerging technologies for humanitarian development and part of the Executive Office of the UN Secretary-General. Through his research at UN Global Pulse, Joseph has worked on projects involving the UN Department for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs (UNDPPA), the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), UN Peacekeeping (UNP), the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) and UNOSAT, the UN’s satellite programme. His work at UN has included: developing AI methods for automating satellite image analysis for mapping refugee camps, damage assessment and flood detection; helping UN field missions understand political sentiment in social media posts; assessing the risks of automated text generation; and investigating the human rights implications of AI. Joseph has spoken widely on the use of Artificial Intelligence in the humanitarian sector, is a Track Chair for the AI for Social Good workshop at NeurIPS 2019, the world’s largest AI conference, and Senior Programme Chair for the Social Impact Track at AAAI 2020.

Joseph is also a Doctoral Researcher at the Institute for Particle Physics Phenomenology, the UK’s national particle physics research laboratory and part of Durham University, working on approximating high precision calculations for complex particle collision processes at CERN using Machine Learning. Joseph combines this with being an Industrial Research Associate at RiskEcon® Lab, NYU, and has also consulted for the private sector, working primarily with organizations in the insurance and medical sectors, including developing a new methodology for automatic X-Ray image segmentation now being used in production. He is also an affiliate of the Institute for Data Science at Durham University, researching applications of AI to a variety of real-world problems.

Short Bio:

Joseph hold the Artificial Research Fellowship at UN Global Pulse, an innovation initiative of the UN Secretary-General to harness big data for sustainable development and humanitarian action, where he works on a variety of projects include remote sensing using satellite images, and NLP for social media analysis. He is also an Industrial Research Associate at the NYU Risk Econ Lab, where he is developing research in computer vision applications to satellite image analysis. Joseph combines this with being a Doctoral Researcher at the Institute for Particle Physics Phenomenology, Durham University, focussing on applying machine learning to approximating high dimensional scattering amplitude calculations. He is also associated to the Institute for Data Science at Durham University.